Virtual functions allow us to define
an abstract class that can function as
an interface from which other classes can be derived.
So imagine a class animal,
and that animal has a function talk.
Now how does an animal talk?
It's not really clear.
We know how humans talk and we know how cows talk,
they moo and horses nay and dogs bark and cats meow.
But how does just a generic animal talk?
It's not totally clear.
So what we might do is declare the talk function on the animal to be a virtual function.
We'll even make it a pure virtual function which is what this equals zero does.
What a virtual function means is that derived classes can override the talk function.
What the equals zero means is that we're not even going to define how an animal talks.
We're never going to be able to create an object of type animal.
We're simply creating an interface and other classes that inherit from
the base class animal are going to have to implement this talk method or talk function.
But the animal class itself is not going to implement it.
So let's create a class human that inherits from public animal,
and this class human has to implement the talk function.
In fact, if we don't implement the talk function,
we'll get an error and let's just verify that that in fact does happen.
So let's try and create an object of type human here and let's compile and we'll see.
We get this issue with an abstract type human and that's
because we are not defining the virtual function talk.
So if we can solve that by defining
the function talk within human and we can say that humans
have a talk function just like in the function signature of the abstract base class,
it's a void function that is a constant.
But we're actually going to define it here and we're going to say in type human,
the talk function has the effect of outputting Hello.
That means we're going to have to include the iostream library.
Now not only can we create an object of type human,
we can have that object talk.
If we compile this now,
oh, we forgot to,
as so often happens,
I forgot to add the semi-colons after my class definition.
Now when we run the function,
we get Hello, the human is talking.
The extra thing we can do here,
just to see how this works,
let's try and create an object of type animal.
If we now try and compile this code,
we will get again this error that we can't declare a variable animal to be of
type Animal and that's because
the following virtual functions are pure within animal, the talk function.
Because we declared talk to the a pure virtual function,
that means animal is
purely abstract class and we're not able to create objects of type animal,
it nearly serves as an interface for
subsequent derived classes that will inherit from it.